This directory contains simple tools for making graphs of
reader-directed narratives, such as the "Choose Your Own Adventure"
books, and the Jackson/Livingstone "Fighting Fantasy" books.

The primary tool is "convert.py", which reads data from standard
input, and writes to standard output. The output format is suitable
for running through graphviz tools (specifically, dot), and a sample
Makefile is provided to do exactly that. Samples (based on some of the
Fighting Fantasy series) are also included.

The input file format is very simple, and consists of a set of
paragraph definitions, followed by a set of group definitions.

A paragraph definition is:

<id> <type-and-markup> <list-of-subsequent-nodes>

where <id> is a number (typically the paragraph number), optionally
followed by an equals sign and a label. If the label contains spaces,
it must be surrounded by quotation marks: "

The <type-and-markup> consists of a single letter, indicating the type
of paragraph:

	d	A simple "straight through" paragraph, or one involving a
		decision from the reader, or one involving a deterministic
		view of state (i.e. "do you have a ring of fire?")
	l	A test of luck, or other randomised test
	c	Combat

In addition, an indicator of the "goodness" or "badness" of the
paragraph outcome can be given by use of one or two pluses or minuses
appended to the type letter.

The <list-of-subsequent-nodes> is a space-separated list of paragraph
ids that this one leads to.

For example, the paragraph:

35 As you enter the house, you trip on the doorstep and sprain your
ankle. Lose 1 strength point. There is a door in the back wall, and a
chest of drawers in the corner. If you would like to open the door,
turn to 370. If you would like to ransack the chest of drawers, turn
to 64.

would become:

35 d- 370 64

A group definition is:

[<group-name>=<list-of-paragraphs-and-groups>]

where <group-name> is simply the name (and label) of the group, and
the list contains paragraph numbers, and group names enclosed in
square brackets. Order is not important.

For example:

[House=35 [Back Room] 64]
[Back Room=370]
